---

title: Hope is the thing with feathers, but we've caged it
date: 2020-03-18 23:46 PDT
tags: claudia

---

It seems uninspired to be derivative, especially seeing as, you know, time is the one commodity we have so much of these days. Sadly, because of the law of diminishing marginal utility, returns on additional free time are non-linear. An argument could be made that DMR (diminishing marginal returns) are never inevitable, and as such any loss in relative gains to additional units of time can be attributed to human flaws such as sloth or apathy. Likely true. See <a href='http://walkingtothefridge.com/posts/2020/03/17/wealth-time-threshold/'>Z's last post</a> for more thoughtful ruminations re: Time. Since I'm already parroting Dickinson, I'll leave the time-related comments at that for now.

The title of today's post is certainly pessimistic. <i>Hope is the thing with feathers, but we've caged it.</i> Assuming even the most moderate level of intelligence on the part of the cage-builder, it seems unlikely for a winged thing to escape a cage. My question is, how long can our dear Hope survive in the cage? Is the act of caging (the literal antithesis of freedom, might I remind you) enough to clip its feathers? Is ability to fly dependent on muscle memory? Crucially, how high maintenance are feathers? Besides, what are the logistics surrounding these feathers? Does Hope shed and regrow them seasonally (yike)?

I do not, at all, have all the answers. My Hope has been beating against its cage these days, dying to get out and fly for a bit. To be a little more concrete: I have realized that I derive much happiness from in-person contact, and that if we imagined Hope as comparable to Club Penguin puffles that remain in people’s homes for as long as they are sufficiently cared for, I’m getting the sense that my Hope likes to be taken on walks. For context, I’m claustrophobic.

In the absence of walks, what to do? (Although to be fair, those are allowed under Santa Clara county’s shelter in place <a href='https://www.sfchronicle.com/local-politics/article/Bay-Area-must-shelter-in-place-Only-15135014.php'>policy</a>. I guess the point is that Hope likes being taken on walks in order to run into other Hopes. And the current walks forbid such stimulus.)

In our beloved Ender's Game, Peter and Valentine Wiggin (child genius extraordinaires) take on the roles of Locke and Demosthenes, two powerful online personas that infiltrate political circles of the highest significance--one urging for world peace, the other world war. Z and I are likely not quite so clever, and certainly nowhere near so influential. Well, Z might be, but I certainly am not. Regardless, from the same simultaneously childish and grandiose intentions that drove Peter and Valentine Wiggin there is this desire to yell into the void, to send waves out into the universe, to hope that the resulting splash produces enough of a ripple that the butterfly effect might grant us some satisfaction. (BTW, Z is also far more looped into this whole public intellectual idea than I am. I just have fever dreams of cosmic significance and of having the void yell back that spur me to write. Also, you know, quarantine. Artificially diminished opportunity cost on time. Etc.)

The point, if one can be salvaged, is as follows: this blog is our version of each day, however temporarily, letting Hope regain some muscle memory. I sit down in front of my screen and for 5, 15, 150 minutes, I am focused on something again. Something that does not require me to leave my house yet still allows me to yell to the outside world. It’s not about if anyone is listening, although that would be a nice perk. It is about Hope getting to take a virtual walk, preening and prancing all the while. Although there are no other live Hopes to run into, there are plenty of spirits floating around in this virtual walkspace, and setting out on these every-other-daily internet walks reminds my Hope to go wag her tail at them. Upside? This kind of yelling doesn’t require a mask. I heard those are in short supply these days.

<i>A final aside on time, because I am a liar and cannot refrain from extended pontification on tangential subjects: when I explained <b>Walking to the fridge</b> to a friend, he expressed surprise that I was able to type such lengthy posts in the timespan it took to walk from point X to the fridge. Your house must be huge, he added. Sadly, my house is not the length of an olympic pool, and I certainly do not walk slowly enough to write these posts en route to the fridge. You could say, in fact, that the name is a farce. That would be scathing, and bruise my ego ever so slightly. But whatever, it was intended to be tongue in cheek.</i>

Darn. Maybe this post was actually about time after all. But oh well, lengthy digressions have always been in fashion, for just as long as narcissism has. (Again, look for the hidden gem on narcissism in Z’s recent post. I think this post falters out of intimidation, the same way mochi pales next to mochi ice cream, which in turn bows down to shaved ice combinations with both ice cream and glutinous rice balls for decoration. Will compensate in my next one. WTT is pretty impressive. I feel the need to think further about it--you should too!)

Adios, my loves. Keep your hopes well groomed, remember that walks are allowed, and that there is plenty of virtual company for our dear Hope. Just takes some tapping, typing, and thinking to reach it. 
