---

title: Time is a river
date: 2020-03-20 23:59 PDT
tags: claudia

---

<i>For other ruminations on the various ways in which a river is helpful imagery, see <a href='https://www.ribbonfarm.com/2010/11/05/ancient-rivers-of-money/'>here</a></i>.

Time is a river. For the purpose of nuance, let's say that there is some current with forward momentum inherent to the river. To reflect the ways in which time passes differently over the course of your life, let's acknowledge that the current differs in speed at different points along the river. When you are aged 0-3, for example, the river seems to pass at light speed, so fast that you barely remember anything. From age 4-9, it's slightly less fast, but still not enough for you to really see anything passing along on the riverbank, except for the vague flash here and there that carries some color. Maybe you have some built-in camera that occasionally captures particularly vibrant flash photos of the passing scenery, and that's why you can remember standing in the zoo in your puffy red parka gaping at two peacocks. Or maybe your parents were there, floating down a parallel river that happened to pass the same bank at the same time (albeit at a slower experienced speed), and they snapped a photo with their iPhone. Which you then saw.<sup>[1]</sup> As you get older, the river slows to a pace where you begin to have control, after which the water becomes your domain. You also become a better swimmer; that helps. Then, at some point far, far into the future, your muscles deteriorate and you re-subject yourself to the dominion of the current.

The river can flow slowly or quickly (giving you a different perception of the pace of time), can be shallow or deep (determining how much ability you have to stand in place and fight the natural current of the river), and have attractions posted on the banks or not (think: is this spot a place where I want to stop for a while? Is there a nice bed and breakfast that's offering some Goldilocks-style porridge, or a scenic sunset to pause and watch for a bit? Maybe whatever is there is even compelling enough for me to get out of the water and dry off, commit to staying for a while. Or maybe the riverbank is barren, and there's no particular reason to stop here, so let's just go with the flow and keep floating downstream).

By the time you are 20, you have gotten a taste of what it feels like to be in full control over your movements. Before coronavirus (yes, a blog because coronavirus), I was perfectly content floating along my river. It came up to my shoulder, so I could always stand up and pause for a bit if I thought things were moving too fast. There was always beautiful scenery on the banks (a party, Maison Mathis, a fun dinner, a club meeting, an event), and plenty of reason to swim to the sides and get out for a bit. Whenever I got out, I was sure to find other people right there with me. If I ever paused for too long, I could always just swim fast and catch up to whatever benchmark I was supposed to meet. I had the option to swim ahead, too, and skip the boring parts of the riverbank where there was nothing or, at best, ongoing construction, as long as I sacrificed a bit of extra strength to swim that extra mile just a teeny bit faster.

Now, in the era &agrave; la social distancing, far from zigzagging all throughout the river to get from bank to bank and place to place, I am stuck, belly up, looking at the sun which has to be honest gotten a little too overwhelming. Back then, floating on my back and staring at the sun was a rare luxury that I lapped up, a reprieve from all the swimming to be done. Sadly, too much of any good thing quickly becomes a bad thing. These days, I'm just lying there, floating on the surface, and the water carries me in perpetuity. I move when the currents move, shift when the water turns. After two weeks of no swimming, I barely have the muscle to paddle anyways. Besides, there's nothing to swim towards. It's almost like the river has stopped moving. If there's no change in surrounding scenery and I'm still in the same waters, how can I know if any time has passed at all? Sometimes I think I see a flash up ahead on the riverbank, but it's just a glint of light. At other times, I come across favorite restaurants and museums and public spaces, but they're all boarded up. No trespassing, no coming on shore, under threat of law. Even the best racehorse gets confused when there are no hurdles to jump; the best swimmer, when there is nothing to swim towards.

This, my friends, is the Lazy River of Life, the world's largest water park! Guess what, floating along aimlessly ain't quite so fun after all. But I suppose it's important to keep paddling once in a while, because eventually, something will emerge on the riverbank. And when that happens, you better have enough arm strength left to pull yourself up and eat your first good meal back on dry land. The sun will shine and your hair will air out and glint brown and your teeth will sparkle and it will feel great to be swimming, to be taking a pause from swimming, to be alive and situated in time after all.

<br>

Notes

<ol>
  <li>It seems plausible that people situated on different rivers can pass by the same bank simultaneously (think: if that riverbank has two sides). But that gets a little confusing when there are more than two parties involved, as it takes us into multidimensional space where n>3. Tough on the brain. If it offends your sense of logic less, let's assume instead that each person is plopped into their own river at birth (woo! luxury!), and that each landmark has a countably infinite number of identical duplicates that are transposed onto the riverbank of every individual present for those moments in time. What? It's all a simulation, anyways. Anything goes.</li>
</ol>
